Missing Docs: Widget State + API Missing Content (#78)
FlutterFlow/flutterflow-documentation: docs/ff-concepts/state-management/widget-state.md

In the following example, we find widget state and widget focus state of a TextField being exposed by FlutterFlow on the page it was created and available as an option in the variable menu.

![using-widget-state.png](imgs%2Fusing-widget-state.png)

:::note[Scope]
Widget states are only available for access on the page or component where they were created.
:::

FlutterFlow allows you to update the state of these widgets through actions exposed by the platform. For example, if you want to clear a TextField when the Send button is clicked on a form-like page, then in the Actions Flow, you can find relevant actions such as **Clear TextField**. This enables dynamic interaction and state management directly within the visual development environment.

![managing-widget-state.png](imgs%2Fmanaging-widget-state.png)

## Action Triggers for Form Widgets
FlutterFlow allows you to bind action triggers to widget states, such as calling an API on focus change of a textfield or changing the appearance of a button when a checkbox is checked.

**Most common Action Triggers exposed by form widgets:**

- **On Focus Change:** Triggered when a widget, such as a text field, gains or loses focus.

> E.g Showing additional tips or validation messages when the user starts typing in a text field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, showing additional tips or validation messages when the user starts typing in a text field.
```
Because it is at the start of a sentence.

> - **On Submit:** Triggered when a form or text field is submitted. E.g Validating input and submitting data when the user presses the enter key or clicks a submit button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On Submit:** Triggered when a form or text field is submitted. For example, validating input and submitting data when the user presses the enter key or clicks a submit button.
```
Because it is at the start of a sentence.

> - **On Change:** Triggered when the value of a widget changes. E.g Real-time validation or updating state as the user types in a text field or changes a selection in a dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On Change:** Triggered when the value of a widget changes. For example, real-time validation or updating state as the user types in a text field or changes a selection in a dropdown.
```
Because it is at the start of a sentence.

- **On Completed:** Triggered when a specific input is completed, such as entering a pincode.

> E.g Automatically moving to the next step in a process after a complete and valid pincode is entered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, automatically moving to the next step in a process after a complete and valid pincode is entered.
```
Because it is at the start of a sentence.

> - **On Selected:** Triggered when an option is selected in widgets like choice chips, checkboxes, radio buttons, or sliders. E.g Updating the UI or performing actions based on the selected option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On Selected:** Triggered when an option is selected in widgets like choice chips, checkboxes, radio buttons, or sliders. For example, updating the UI or performing actions based on the selected option.
```
Because it is at the start of a sentence.
